# LINE-TO-GROUND-AND-LINE-TO-LINE-FAULT-DETECTION-OVER-IOT
This project utilizes Arduino and IoT to determine the exact location of line-to-ground and line-to-line faults in urban cable systems, enabling efficient fault repair. It relies on Ohm's law and series resistors to measure fault distances, displaying accurate results on an Arduino-connected LCD and an IoT interface


The objective of this project is to determine the distance of line to ground and line to line fault from base station in kilometers using an Arduino board over IOT. This system is a common practice followed in many urban areas. While a fault occurs for some reason, at that time the repairing process related to that particular cable is difficult due to not knowing the exact location of the cable fault. The proposed system is to find the exact location of the fault.
        The project uses the standard concept of Ohms law i.e., when a low DC voltage is applied at the feeder end through a series resistor (Cable lines), then current would vary depending upon the location of fault in the cable. In case there is a short circuit (Line to Ground/ Line to Line), the voltage across series resistors changes accordingly, which is then fed to inbuilt ADC of Arduino board to develop precise digital data for display in kilometers.
         The project is assembled with a set of resistors representing cable length in KM’s and fault creation is made by a set of switches at every known KM to cross check the accuracy of the same. The fault occurring at a particular distance and the respective phase is displayed on a LCD interfaced to the Arduino board and also msg is dislayed on IOT page.
          Further this project can be enhanced by using capacitor in an ac circuit to measure the impedance which can even locate the open circuited cable, unlike the short circuited fault only using resistors in DC circuit as followed in the above proposed project.
